# Hotel_BookingCancellation_MiniProject
City Hotel and Resort have been experiencing high rates of cancellations in recent years, resulting in several issues for each hotel, such as reduced revenues. This data analysis focuses on analyzing hotel booking cancellations and other factors that do not affect their business and yearly revenue generation. The assumptions are that there were no significant events between 2015 and 2017 that could affect the data, the information is still current and useful for analyzing hotel plans, there are no unexpected drawbacks to using the recommended techniques, and the hostels are not currently utilizing any of the suggested solutions. The primary factor affecting revenue generation is booking cancellations, resulting in vacant rooms for the reserved duration, and clients usually book and cancel their reservations in the same year.

The research questions are: What are the factors that affect hotel reservation cancellations? How can we improve hotel reservation cancellations? How will hotels be aided in making pricing and promotional decisions? The hypotheses are that more cancellations occur when prices are higher, customers tend to cancel more frequently when there is a longer waiting list, and most clients make their reservations offline.

To address these issues, some suggestions are that hotels could lower their rates for specific hotels based on locations and offer discounts to prevent cancellations of reservations. Additionally, the hotels could provide reasonable discounts on room prices on weekends or holidays, start campaigns or marketing with a reasonable amount in January to increase their revenues, and improve the quality of their hotels and services mainly in Portugal to reduce the cancellation rate.
